HIV or human immunodeficiency virus is the cause of AIDS.
It can infect the bloodstream following unprotected sex
with an infected person,
Exposure to infected blood,
or can be passed from an infected pregnant mother to her child.
Having unprotected sex or sharing drug injection equipment
with a person infected with HIV
are the two most common ways to become infected.
Once infected, the HIV virus attacks and destroys
the infection fighting CD4 cells of the body's immune system.
The loss of the immune system leaves patients vulnerable to illnesses.
Including cancer, opportunistic infections and dementia.
There is no cure for HIV Aids,
but there are treatments that slow the progression of AIDS,
by limiting the number of immune cells that are destroyed.
The body can then replace the ones that are lost.
There are combinations of drugs used to treat HIV
called cocktails, or triple therapy.
These cocktails attack HIV in different ways
and protect the immune system
so it can continue to fight infections.
One part of the cocktail or triple therapy
is called nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors or NRTIs.
After HIV enters the CD4 cells,
it migrates to the cells genetic material to reproduce itself.
NRTI medications block the virus from replicating.
NRTIs are considered the backbone of HIV therapy
because they stop the most important step
within the life cycle of an HIV virus.
One part of the cocktail is called
Non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors or NNRTIs.
After HIV enters the immune cell
it starts to make copies of itself.
But before it can make those copies
NNRTI medications block the HIV virus from replicating.
NNRTI medications are part of the HIV cocktail
that work before HIV can make more copies of itself.
One part of the cocktail or triple therapy
is called a protease inhibitor.
A chemical called protease is used to clip the HIV protein
into strands that contain a new virus,
which are then released into the body to do more damage.
Protease inhibitors stop this step,
and prevent the manufacture and release of new viruses.
Protease inhibitors are the part of the HIV cocktail
that prevents HIV from sending out new HIV cells.